# Digital Assignment 05: Traffic Jam

High Concept: Escape the traffic jam by weaving in and out of traffic in your 
new sports car.

Player Experience Goals: This game is designed to produce a experience of close 
calls and quick reactions for the player. The automatic acceleration of the car 
forces the player to react quickly and puts them in a state of flow as they 
swerve around the map.

Genre: This game mostly draws elements from the puzzle genre, but also 
incorporates mechanics from the racing genre.

Game play: The player controls a yellow sports car by using the right and 
left arrows to move in their respective direction. The car automatically 
accelerates forward up to a maximum speed. The player's car is surrounded by 
traffic and in order to get through he/she must swerve around them. Any head on 
collisions will damage the player's car. If the player's car takes more than 
100 damage they will have totalled it and loose the game. If the player makes 
it to the front of the traffic they will win. The player is being timed as well 
but it is only used for determining high scores.

Prototype goal: The goal of this game is to create a quick but challenging game 
that requires concentration and precision. This game is designed to put the 
player in a state of "flow."

Features: Unlike most racing games there are no opponent or clock to race 
against. Instead this game is more of a reaction puzzle racing game that 
requires precise motion.

Setting/Premise: You are a new proud owner of a fast yellow sports car, but you 
are currently stuck in traffic, unable to test your new rides power. You have
 had enough of sitting and decide to make your own route through. You decide to
 cut in between traffic to try and get ahead.
 
Story: The dramatic tension arises from your inability to drive fast and enjoy 
life. Fed up with waiting around you have to break some laws, and maybe some 
fenders, to have some fun.

Target Audience: The main demographic for this game is fans of puzzle runner 
games that have the player avoiding obstacles as they progress forward 
endlessly.

Play time: This game is a quick game that can be beat in a matter of minutes.

Strategies: The player will need to have fast reflexes and a quick finger to 
move in between the cars and succeed.

Prototype Assets: The game sprites and images are self created, and the 
following are used with the permission of the author:
The music is "The Night" by DJ Davidouille:
https://www.jamendo.com/en/track/1163911/the-night-david33fr-mayne-2014
Car start up sfx by MAJ061785:
http://www.freesound.org/people/MAJ061785/sounds/85517/
Traffic jam voice provided by shawshank73:
http://www.freesound.org/people/shawshank73/sounds/74984/
Car beeps and signals borrowed from Robinhood76:
http://www.freesound.org/people/Robinhood76/sounds/106785/
Carsh crash sound effects created by squareal:
http://www.freesound.org/people/squareal/sounds/237375/

Prototype Closest Other Game: Some machanics for the cars acceleration and 
movement borrowed from the Game Mechanic Explorer example "Spaceship Motion - 
With Drag"